---
layout: page
title: Vision
permalink: "vision/index.html"
sidebar: false
highlight_first: true
---

Passion Talks are a platform for scholarly Christians to develop and
share their voice in order to foster humble dialogue between scholarly
communities and the Christian Church.

## Who is Passion Talks?: "Scholars", "the Church", and "Christian scholars"

The word "scholars" is used here broadly, intended to be inclusive of
students, academics, professionals, and other experts, and meant to
imply anyone who performs intellectual work with rigorous training in
a particular field of knowledge. We use the term "the Church" here to
broadly encompass all Christians, whose faith in Jesus Christ informs
a specific worldview. By extension, "scholarly Christians" are
individuals who find themselves members of both groups, whose
backgrounds position them uniquely to bridge this gap between the
scholars and the Church.

## Developing the voice of scholarly Christians

The faith and scholarly expertise of a Christian scholar can enrich
each other. It can, however, take some effort to make and articulate
the connections between them. Developing the unique voice of Christian
scholars helps clarify the faith-scholarship connection while building
a better integrated platform between often estranged
communities. Christian scholars themselves benefit by gaining a
broader context for intellectual pursuits and a better understanding
of themselves and their work.

## Sharing scholarly voices with the Christian Church

There is a great need for the Church to understand how scholarly work
relates to Christian truths. This understanding can be critical for
engaging with the world, and can lead to a deeper appreciation of
God’s creation. The Church is increasingly seen as anti-intellectual,
and this threatens its credibility to speak with authority. By sharing
their expertise with the Church, Christian scholars can provide
clarification and interpretation of current scholarly work in ways
that bring their shared values together.

## Sharing Christian voices with scholarly communities

The creation and appreciation of knowledge are better served by the
synthesis of scholarly pursuits and enriching faith than by their
separation. A Christian perspective, grounded in the love of Jesus
Christ, can positively transform a scholar’s relationship with their
work and the world. This affects not only how they explore and create
knowledge, but also how they find meaning in their work and deal with
success and disappointment. This Christian perspective on scholarship
has the potential to change and enrich a person’s work and life, and
provide meaningful context to intellectual work.

## Engaging the Christian Church and scholarly communities in humble dialogue

Scholars and Christians are united by their passions for understanding
reality and their work for making a better world. The current
dissonance between these communities, however, suggests the need for
humble exchange to better understand shared values and shared
goals. Passion Talks seeks to create a space where members of
scholarly communities and the Christian Church can come together to
engage in respectful dialogue. This humble exchange will enable
progress through a unified understanding of values and pursuits, and
reduce barriers between the two groups.
